[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>DAVID WILCOCK: Hello, and
welcome to another episode
of disclosure.
We are interviewing my
hero, G. Edward Griffin,
the author of a whole
bunch of really explosive,
whistle-blowing books,
including "The Creature
from Jekyll Island," which he
is possibly the most known for.
In this episode, we're
really going to get into it.
Now, you may or may not have
heard of the so-called LIBOR
scandal.
This is unbelievable.
Because this is
supposedly a watermark
that determines how
much competition banks
have with each other based
on their financial solvency.
And now we find out, and
this has been publicly
made available to us, that
the banks were actually
colluding with each other to
rig their own interest rates.
And the bottom line
is that all of them
were pretending that they were
worth more than they really
were.
The whole economy is
ultimately a Ponzi scheme.
Then we're also seeing the
Snowden stuff coming out.
What's up with that?
What is the real
purpose of the NSA?
Is it really to look for some
guys in a cave in Afghanistan?
I don't think so.
G. Edward Griffin asks some
very pertinent questions here,
which is, if we have this group,
it is essentially a cartel.
A cartel is simply governments
and businesses working together
in secret to eliminate
competition and maximize
profits.
And so the word "cartel"
is a really good benchmark
for using this.
So we have the NSA that puts
people under surveillance.
And we're seeing the results
of that surveillance seeming
to include the fact
that this group has
been able to amass
incredible power,
seemingly with no opposition.
If you can listen
to every phone call,
if you can hear what
everybody's saying,
then you can basically
do what you want,
because if anybody comes up
and tries to tear you down,
you can just take them out.
And that's what we
seem to be seeing
with this rash of
banker suicides
that's been going on
all throughout 2014.
So there's a lot of
information to consider here.
And G. Edward Griffin
is the best of the best.
He was the main
inspiration for Ron Paul
that led to Ron Paul speaking
out about the Federal Reserve.
So I'm very honored to be
able to interview G. Edward
Griffin in this
episode, where we really
get into the heart of
understanding the Federal
Reserve and the NSA.
Check it out.
Now, you are most well known
for your groundbreaking,
investigative work into exposing
the Federal Reserve System.
So the average person can
pull $1 out of their wallet,
and they look at the money,
and right up at the top
it says, Federal Reserve Note.
What exactly does that mean?
>>G. EDWARD GRIFFIN: It means
they're being vandalized.
It means they're
being stolen from.
It means they're using as
money a piece of paper that
was issued by a banking
cartel, and they
think that it's issued
by the government.
They think it's secure.
They think it's an
honorable piece of money.
And they think that's the
best that there it is.
They think that if they
save that money in a bank
account or accumulate value
in an insurance policy
or something like
that, they think
that they're doing the
right thing for themselves
and their families,
because as the years go by,
they'll be able to retire
on this accumulated wealth.
So they're thinking right
from their perspective,
but what they don't
realize is that this is not
a real-- at least not
a good money system.
You could call it money.
It is.
It certainly is a money, but
it's a very bad form of money.
It's a fiat money system.
What they don't realize
is that it's a trick.
It's a fraud.
The money is supposed to
be a measure of value.
You're supposed to
say, well, I measure
everything in comparison
to this unit, the dollar.
It's supposed to be the same
now, and 20 years from now
and 50 years from
now, that should
represent the same value.
And it does if the money is
backed by something of value
also, like gold or silver
or cases of cheap white wine
or anything that it takes
human effort to produce.
Then the money system, if
it's backed by those things,
has a value that is stable
over a period of time.
But once they break
the money away
from anything of intrinsic
value and they can just
create it by raising
their hand and say, yeah,
I vote for another
$100 billion today,
and it's created out of
nothing, well, now it's
no longer a measure
of value at all.
It's a trick.
It's worthless, really,
and it's very dangerous.
I shouldn't say it's
worthless, because as long
as people are willing to
accept it, it's worth that.
But the value of it
keeps going down day
by day, month by
month, year by year.
And as we know,
there was a time--
I can remember when I first
started to drive a car.
I could buy a gallon
of gas for $0.31.
Well, what it is
today, I don't know
how long this film's
going to be around now,
but it's pushing $5.
Does that mean that the
gas really costs more?
No.
The gas really costs the same.
It's that the value of
the dollar has gone down.
Because it takes more of
them to buy gas and bread
and pay your rent and
your utility bill.
It takes more of
those for everything.
The real value has
remained stable.
But we just have no measure
of what stability is.
>>DAVID: OK, so the
term Federal Reserve,
most people are
going to think, OK,
federal, that means it's
the federal government
of the United States.
Reserve means that there
is some reserve of money
that they are
holding as collateral
against these Federal Reserve
notes that they're printing.
Is the Federal Reserve part
of our federal government
at all or not?
And what really is
the Federal Reserve?
What are we looking at here?
>>GRIFFIN: It's absolutely true
that somebody will say that.
[LAUGHS] I've heard
it many, many times.
But it is not absolutely
true that they're correct.
In fact, they're wrong.
They just don't understand.
The truth of the matter is
those are called Federal Reserve
Notes, which means that
they're-- a note is like
and IOU.
That's what "note" means
in the financial world.
It's a note.
I loan you some money, and
here's my note for you to sign,
and you pay it back.
So I hold the note, and
you've got the piece of paper.
And so a Federal
Reserve Note means
it's an IOU issued by
the Federal Reserve.
Well, what is the
Federal Reserve?
Is it an agency of the
federal government?
No, it is not.
The Federal Reserve
is a banking cartel.
It's a group of private banks.
So a Federal Reserve Note is a
piece of paper issued as an IOU
by the private banks.
That's what it is.
And will those private
banks ever pay it back?
No.
The answer is no.
They'll pay it
back, but in what?
In more Federal
Reserve Notes, see.
That's the trick.
If you're forced to use
these notes as money,
then no matter how
worthless they become,
you must accept them as
payment back for the originals.
Is not an accident, by the way.
These things are not
taught in school.
They're not taught in
school because the schools
are run by the government.
And it's in the best
interest of the government
that you and I don't really
think about these sorts
of things very much.
It's very much in
their interest.
Otherwise we might get angry.
>>DAVID: One of the
more interesting aspects
of your book is
that you describe
that there were
four attempts made
to create the Federal Reserve.
The Federal Reserve
Act of 1913 was only
the conclusion of
a longstanding war
to try to create this financial
structure of a central bank.
So can you walk us through
the alternative view
of American history
that you have presented
and show us who
these people are?
And how have they tried to
build this cartel over time?
>>GRIFFIN: It's a very important
part of American history,
and it's something that's
surprised me to find out
that the Federal Reserve was
actually the fourth attempt
to create what they call
a central bank in America.
A central bank is
merely a code phrase
that the academics use to
describe this thing called--
we call it the Federal Reserve,
but in other countries,
they have the same thing
called something else.
They're all central banks, which
means that they're basically
private banks in the
form of a cartel, which
have gone into partnership with
their respective governments.
And the governments have
taken their cartel agreement
and passed it into law so
that now what would normally
be just a private agreement
between the banks themselves
to regulate themselves
for their own benefit
now is enshrined in the laws
of those countries, which
means that you and I
now must obey or abide
by the rules of a cartel
or we go to prison.
So that's the reason that most
people think that the Federal
Reserve and other central
banks around the world
are, in fact, agencies
of their governments,
because they know if they don't
go along with these rules,
they're going to go to prison.
And only governments
can put you in prison.
So that's what makes it look
like a government agency when
in fact, all it is is a private
banking cartel agreement, which
has been passed into law.
And therefore, the government
becomes a partner, in a way,
with the private
banks in this cartel.
And we've got this
partnership, this amalgamation
between politics and finance.
And that's a very, very
powerful combination.
Well, so I was
surprised to find out
that the Federal Reserve
was the fourth attempt
to do that in the United States.
I was really
surprised to find out
that at the time of the
signing of the Declaration
of Independence and the writing
of the Constitution itself,
we already had
one of those here.
I didn't know it, but
there was one there.
And it didn't last very long.
They were raising
money, by the way,
by printing it and
creating it out
of nothing to help finance
the Revolutionary War.
That's one of the reasons that
the politicians and the bankers
form this partnership,
is because it's
mutually advantageous.
The politicians are able
to get fast, easy money
in unlimited quantities, because
the banks just create it.
There's no limit.
It's not backed by
gold or anything.
And so that's why the
politicians like it.
And the bankers like it because,
heck, they created money,
and now they're
collecting interest
on this thing they created.
They like that.
And everybody likes it
except the poor suckers
out there like us
who have to pay
the taxes in the form of either
direct taxes or inflation,
prices going up to
pay for all of this.
So that was already
in place at that time.
It had ruined what was left
of the economy at the end
of the Revolutionary War.
And there was a strong
movement to get rid of it.
In fact, they did.
Within a year or two-- I've
forgotten the exact time frame,
but very soon after the
creation of the country,
the first central bank
of the United States
was allowed to expire.
The charter expired,
and it became, I think,
a Philadelphia bank,
just a private bank.
The second one came along.
It was the First Bank
of the United States.
And it went out of business.
The third one came along.
It was the Third Bank
of the United States.
And that was the
one where there was
a great battle between President
Andrew Jackson and the bankers.
He's famous for that battle.
Even the history
books today, you
can find maybe a couple of lines
about Andrew Jackson's battle
against the bank.
You don't get any details.
All you know is that Jackson
was against the banks,
and you wonder, really, who
were the good guys in that,
maybe Jackson, maybe the banks.
But it turned out that Jackson
really based his career
on getting rid of the banks.
He called them,
you den of vipers!
That was his attack
phrase, colorful language
for a president speaking
against the central bank.
He says, I will cast thee out.
There was almost a
religious fervor.
And he put his political
career on the line.
And he almost lost that
battle, because Nicholas Biddle
was the head of the
bank at that time.
And he is quoted as saying,
I will get this guy Jackson.
I'm going to ruin him.
I'm going to have him impeached.
And he said, the
United States may fall,
but the bank will not fall.
He's quoted as saying that.
And so what he did is he
started to pull in loans that
were outstanding to businesses.
He was demanding full payment.
And it was putting
companies out of business.
He was deliberately creating
a man-made recession
so that he could say, you see?
That's Jackson's fault.
He talks about taking away
the power of our bank, and look
what he's doing to the economy.
And people were saying,
yeah, Jackson, you dirty guy.
Look what you're
doing to the economy.
And there was a movement
in Congress to impeach him.
Well, it turned out
that almost by accident,
there was one of the large
newspapers in the Midwest that
picked up on the fact that
Biddle was deliberately
doing this.
They published it.
And when the news hit
that it was Biddle himself
who was doing this, then
the tide of public opinion
turned, and it was Biddle
who found himself out
on the street, and
Jackson had the support,
and the bank was
finally terminated.
>>DAVID: What's your
perspective on the War of 1812?
America had declared its
independence from Britain.
But then the British come back,
and they tried to invade again.
Do you see that
historical event as being
significant in the research
that you've conducted?
>>GRIFFIN: I'm not
one of the people that
is so concerned about foreign
involvement or influence
in our Federal Reserve system.
I know it's there.
I know that the Rothschilds and
the Warburgs in the beginning
were very influential in
the policies and so forth.
But I don't really see
that as a major factor.
Let's just assume for the
moment that the British banks
or political figures are shadowy
figures behind the scene, are
the dominant force in the
Federal Reserve System.
So what?
We still have to get
rid of it, you see?
We can talk about
who is behind that
and who is getting the most
benefit, but none of that
makes any difference.
We know it's not us.
So let's get on
with the real job
and get rid of this monster.
Let's slay this creature.
Usually in that argument,
you find the idea
that, well, it's those big, bad
bankers that are the problem.
We're paying interest
on the national debt
to these big, bad bankers, and
interest on private debt, too.
So all we got to do is just get
those banker out of the picture
and turn this fiat money
system over to the treasury
and let the federal
government run the scam.
See?
We can't trust those
big, bad bankers,
but those nice, friendly,
trustworthy politicians
are different.
We can trust them to
take care of the problem.
This is the hidden message
behind that argument.
Let's see who's behind it.
And they're foreigners.
Well, we don't like
foreigners, right?
So let's get it back
to the people, which
means to the politicians
in Washington.
And I don't like
that solution at all.
I think it's a trap.
And I'm glad you brought it
up, because it gave me a chance
to express my views on that.
>>DAVID: So I'm interested
in looking at the fact
that we have the
Federal Reserve that
gets started in 1913, in which
the American government quite
literally outsourced the
issuance of its currency
to a consortium of
private bankers.
And then within four years,
we have the conditions
that lead up to World
War I, including
the rise of the Russian
Revolution of 1917,
the Bolshevik Revolution.
Is that just a
coincidence, or is there
are some connective thread
between the foundation
the Federal Reserve and
the start of these wars?
In short, I guess what
I'm really asking is,
is there a reason for why a
banking cartel like the Federal
Reserve would want
there to be a war?
Do they profit off of it?
And if so, how are
they benefiting
from creating these wars?
>>GRIFFIN: It's a
complex question
with different components to it.
First of all, Woodrow
Wilson was concerned,
as far as I can see
in his later years,
was concerned about this
creature, the Federal Reserve,
that he had helped
create, by the way.
I think it's
important for people
to know that Wilson himself was
a big supporter of the Federal
Reserve.
And without his cooperation and
behind-the-scenes endorsement,
the Federal Reserve
probably would never
have been enacted into law.
>>DAVID: Is that
just a coincidence?
Was war good business for them?
>>GRIFFIN: So the issue is that
why are the bankers doing this?
Is it just because they
want to make money?
Or do they have political
objectives as well?
And if it's primarily
money, does war
help them achieve
that objective?
Duh, of course.
Nations at war spend
huge amounts of money,
and they don't get
it from direct taxes.
They always get it
through inflation.
They always get it through their
central banks, who just create
it out of thin air,
pump it into the economy
through the government,
and it's inflation.
And that's why the price of
gasoline and bread and college
educations keeps
going up, up, up,
because the value of the dollar
keeps going down, down, down.
And that lost value is what is
siphoned off to the government
so they can fight the wars.
That's how they
finance the wars.
And we pay for it through
inflation primarily.
So sure, central banks
and, well, any bank
loves to make loans.
They're born to make loans.
That's how they
make their money.
And so there's no bigger
borrower than the government
fighting a war.
So it's just obvious once
you see the picture of that.
It is very much in the
interest of the Federal Reserve
and every other central bank
in the world to be the lender
to their governments
on a big scale.
And there's nothing quite as big
a scale as a war for survival.
And under those conditions,
the politicians and the people
themselves don't ask
what the price tag is.
They don't say, how much
is this going to cost us?
They say, I don't care
what the price is.
We have to win the war,
or we'll be conquered.
So wars have always been a prime
weapon, a tool, if you will,
on the part of central banks.
And in my mind at
least, David, if it
weren't for that
central bank mechanism,
where they could finance
wars in this easy fashion,
I think most modern wars
would never have been fought.
>>DAVID: In the
last year, we've now
heard about the LIBOR scandal,
where all the top banks that
are supposedly competing
with each other
are actually manipulating
their own interest
rates to benefit each other.
That's come out recently.
Would you say that
that's the smoking gun
that you've been
looking forward to prove
that this cartel
actually exists?
>>GRIFFIN: Yes,
I think it's true
that in the last year or two,
it seems like the evidence has
been coming, bubbling
up from this morass,
from this pit of smoking debris.
And there's the evidence
bobbing around on the surface.
Yeah, the banks are crooked.
The banks steal.
The banks lie.
The banks have unsavory
political connections.
They're buying politicians.
It's all coming up.
And people go, well,
how about that?
What does this mean?
Well, it means that
we've been taken over
by a banking cartel that
owns our government.
That's what it means.
And they get away with this.
We read about it
in the newspaper
and think, well, I'm
glad we read about it.
That means the
problem's solved, right?
No, they just read about it.
The problem goes on.
None of these guys
ever go to prison.
They never pay.
I mean, their corporations,
like their bank,
might get find $50
million or even $1 billion
for having cheated the American
people in their mortgage loans.
Oh, that's good.
The bank's going to
pay $1 billion, right?
Who's the bank?
The investors in the bank.
In other words, it's the
Ma's and the Pa's that
put their savings
in the bank stock
because they're trying to
put the kids through school
or have a retirement fund.
They're the ones
that pay the fine.
The executives who made
the decision get a bonus.
They don't go to prison.
They get a promotion.
And they go on to the next job.
And they say, [KISSES] thank
you, you guys in the Congress.
Thank you.
That worked out pretty well.
Let's do it again.
That's why all these
things keep coming up.
That's what we're learning.
Is it the smoking gun?
I guess you would call it
the stinking garbage more
than anything else.
And I'm glad to see it
happening, not because it's
happening, but because
it's so visible now
that maybe the American
people will wake up
and say, things are not exactly
what I've been told they are.
>>DAVID: Ed, why are the NSA
listening to our phone calls?
Are they really just looking
for a bunch of guys hiding out
in caves in Afghanistan trying
to smuggle in box cutters
through airport
security and TSA?
It doesn't add up for me.
To listen to
everybody's phone call,
there must be some
deeper agenda going on.
So what are they doing?
And who are these people?
>>GRIFFIN: The NSA is
the American version
of the spy agencies for a
collectivist government, which
means the government is
moving toward a goal, which
is the absolute domination
and control over all citizens.
There are similar agencies
in other government,
maybe not as well funded or
as big, but Germany has one,
France has one, Russia has
a huge one, England has one.
I mean any, nation with a
little extra money in its budget
has got a similar
agency to the NSA.
Why?
Are they looking for terrorists?
No.
That's their pretense.
What they're trying to
do is build a mechanism
whereby they can spot
people like you and me.
Of course, they
know where we are.
We're kind of out in the open.
But they can spot people
like the guy next door,
who may think the same things
that we do but he's not visible
yet.
They want to know who everybody
is that is asking questions
like we're asking.
They want to know who
are the people who
are not content with
the present system.
They want to know who are
the people that likely will
demand reform, real reform.
They want to know who
it is that possibly
might offer some kind
of physical resistance.
They want to know
who owns the guns.
They want to know what political
parties that people belong to
and who they vote for and
what churches they go to.
They want to know
how they think.
Why?
It's because they want
to spot the people who
have to be put away--
that's as bluntly
as I know how to say it--
people that need to be put away,
need to be taken
off the streets,
have to be put in
prisons or worse.
They do not want those
people roaming around,
because they know that's
the vulnerable point
of their regime, their control.
They know things like
that are possible.
They believe that
they're coming.
In fact, this is no secret.
This isn't even a controversial
thing that I'm saying.
It sounds blunt and harsh,
but everybody's saying it.
You can go to the
United Nations,
and you can read
report after report
after report of how they
must prepare for civil unrest
in all the countries
of the world,
because the people are getting--
the natives are restless.
The people are uprising.
We've seen riots
and demonstrations,
and we're going to
see more of that.
And they know that.
They know that.
You go to any major city and go
down to the police department,
go your state headquarters, go
to the law enforcement agency,
and you'll see report
after report saying,
prepare for civil violence.
People are getting angry
with their governments.
Prepare for it.
This is not controversial.
I'm just saying this is
what everybody knows.
So when you ask the
question, "Why do they
have these spy operations
going?" it makes sense.
They want to know who
it is that's going
to cause the problem
so they can possibly
prevent it or deal with it
in a very efficient manner.
>>DAVID: For me, this is
liberating information.
I don't get scared when I have
these kind of conversations.
You can see how much
G. Edward Griffin and I
are smiling as we're talking.
And the reason why is that
the truth will set you free.
I do believe in a spiritual
purpose to this universe.
I believe in a just
and loving creator.
And I believe that even
as scary as this looks,
this cartel has been
allowed to exist.
It's written into the great
ancient texts like the Bible
that the devil would take
over dominion of the Earth.
But this does
appear to be a sort
of philosophical,
apocryphal, roundabout way
of saying things in a
metaphorical language that
is now being literally seen.
That may sound awful Christian
and Bible-banging to you,
but all the ancient
traditions spoke
about a time of great darkness,
great corruption on Earth,
that would then pave the
way for a golden age.
In the next episode,
we're going to bring it up
into the 20th century
with the Federal Reserve
and all of the ways in which
the things that we've learned
consolidate into
what we know now.
That's coming up next
time here on "Disclosure."
I'm your host, David Wilcock,
speaking truth to power
and giving power to the truth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]